Add news 12.0.9 (#1434)
groonga/groonga: doc/source/news.rst

News
====

.. _release-12-0-9:

Release 12.0.9 - 2022-10-28
---------------------------

Improvements
------------

* [:doc:`reference/functions/escalate`] Added a document for the ``escalate()`` function.

> 

Reviewer: We need to add https://github.com/groonga/groonga/commit/58e49dd6940f80b703f9efc908a60df05ae4c130.

Author: Added

> 

Reviewer: We need to add https://github.com/groonga/groonga/commit/0c1280c129c4e5fe7bdccad64c8b19f2c76b8e66.

Author: Added

Fixes
-----

* [:doc:`reference/commands/select`] Fixed a bug that Groonga could crash when specifying :ref:`select-n-workers`.

  This had occured when using :ref:`select-n-workers` with a value greater than ``1`` and ``drilldowns[{LABEL}].filter`` at the same time.

  This was because referencing incorrect values when performing internal parallel processing.

>   So if the condition above was satisfied, Groonga sometimes crashed depending on the timing of the parallel processing.

Reviewer: もしクラッシュしなかった場合、ドリルダウンの結果は正しい結果になるんでしたっけ？
もし、ならないならそのことも書いておいた方がよいと思います。

Author: 理屈から考えて不正な結果を返す場合もありそうだったので、その旨も記載しました。

News
====

.. _release-12-0-9:

Release 12.0.9 - 2022-10-28
---------------------------

Improvements
------------

* [:doc:`reference/functions/escalate`] Added a document for the ``escalate()`` function.

* [:doc:`reference/normalizers`] Added NormalizerHTML. (Experimental)

  This is a normalizer for HTML.

  Currently this supports only unescaping reference characters like ``&amp;`` or ``&#38;``.

  Here is a sample query for NormalizerHTML.

  .. code-block::
  
     normalize NormalizerHTML "Groonga &amp; Mroonga &#38; Rroonga"
     [[0,1666854852.063215,0.0006151199340820312],{"normalized":"Groonga & Mroonga & Rroonga","types":[],"checks":[]}]
  
  In this sample, ``&amp;`` and ``&#38;`` are unescaped to ``&``.

> * [httpd] Updated bundled nginx to 1.23.2.

Reviewer: This update include security bug fix.
Therefore, we should also add about security bug fix.

See: https://nginx.org/en/CHANGES

Fixes
-----

* [:doc:`reference/commands/select`] Fixed a bug that Groonga could crash or return incorrect results when specifying :ref:`select-n-workers`.

  This had occured when using :ref:`select-n-workers` with a value greater than ``1`` and ``drilldowns[{LABEL}].filter`` at the same time.

  This was because referencing incorrect values (objects) when performing internal parallel processing.
  So if the condition above was satisfied, Groonga sometimes crashed or returned incorrect results depending on the timing of the parallel processing.

> * Suppressed logging a lot of same messages when no memory available.

Reviewer: I think this is not a bug.
Because it is not abnormaly that Groonga output a lot of same messages when no memory available.

Author: Moved to Improvement.

News
====

.. _release-12-0-9:

Release 12.0.9 - 2022-10-28
---------------------------

Improvements
------------

* [:doc:`reference/functions/escalate`] Added a document for the ``escalate()`` function.

* [:doc:`reference/normalizers`] Added NormalizerHTML. (Experimental)

>   This is a normalizer for HTML.

Author: Fixed.

  Currently this supports only unescaping reference characters like ``&amp;`` or ``&#38;``.

  Here is a sample query for NormalizerHTML.

  .. code-block::
  
     normalize NormalizerHTML "Groonga &amp; Mroonga &#38; Rroonga"
     [[0,1666854852.063215,0.0006151199340820312],{"normalized":"Groonga & Mroonga & Rroonga","types":[],"checks":[]}]
  
  In this sample, ``&amp;`` and ``&#38;`` are unescaped to ``&``.

* [httpd] Updated bundled nginx to 1.23.2.

  Contains security fix of CVE-2022-41741 and CVE-2022-41742.

  Please refer to https://nginx.org/en/CHANGES about the changes of nginx 1.23.2. 

* Suppressed logging a lot of same messages when no memory available.

  Groonga could log a lot of ``mmap failed!!!!`` when no memory available.
  We fixed to log the above message as less duplicates as possible.

Fixes
-----

* [:doc:`reference/commands/select`] Fixed a bug that Groonga could crash or return incorrect results when specifying :ref:`select-n-workers`.

>   This had occured when using :ref:`select-n-workers` with a value greater than ``1`` and ``drilldowns[{LABEL}].filter`` at the same time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This crash had occurred when using :ref:`select-n-workers` with a value greater than ``1`` and ``drilldowns[{LABEL}].filter`` at the same time.
```
Unless you specify what is this, I could read ”Fixed a bug had occurred....."
( occured is Occurred)

>   This was because referencing incorrect values (objects) when performing internal parallel processing.

Reviewer 2: same here when using " this " as the subject it would be nice to add the main word.

Author: Fixed.
